United Nations security Council has
voted in favor of a humanitarian pause
in Israel's war on Gaza 15 member
Council called for Urgent and extended
pauses to allow Aid
access the Royal chalins joins us live
now from occupied East Jerusalem so a
vote for a pause but what's been the
Israeli reaction to
this well look I've got two quotes here
from Israeli official which I think tell
you all you really need to know about
how Israel as a you know as a government
feels about this we have one from the
Ambassador Israel's ambassador to the UN
uh that's gillad erdan who says that the
resolution is disconnected from reality
and will have no meaning in practice he
says Israel is according to
international law anyway while the Hamas
terrorists will not read the resolution
at all and will not act on it now the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs says that
there is no room for a prolonged
humanitarian trues as long as 239
abductees are in the hands of Hamas
terrorists we expect the security
Council to unequivocally condemn Hamas
and address the need to create a
different security reality in Gaza so
clearly the Israelis are not going to
abide by this un Security Council
resolution they feel that it will hands
the initiative to Hamas and that the
resolution is lopsided anyway and
doesn't address the things that Israel
wants to see uh addressed Israel has
form in uh ignoring Security Council
resolutions it has done so in the past
just two examples in
2016 Netanyahu ignored a un Security
Council resolution that called for a
stop of uh illegal settlements activity
uh in the West Bank and in 2009 in a
previous flare up of of Gaza violence uh
the then pres prime minister of Israel
ignored un Security Council resolution
again calling for immediate ceasefires
what's notable about this Security
Council resolution is the lack of vetos
there were no vetos from the permanent
members uh no veto from the United
States no veto from the UK no veto from
Russia they all obstain so this
resolution passed through and that
essentially means that the US allowed it
to pass through it didn't Scupper it it
didn't sabotage it and that I think
points to an important point which is
really that the the biggest check on
Israeli activity uh military activity at
least is not the UN Security Council
it's not the UN resolutions it's the
United States and what the United States
thinks uh Israel should and shouldn't be
doing and that's what we should really
be looking for I think next is how much
pressure the US is putting on Israel to
dial things down Rory thanks very much
for
that